Here, for your team's benefit, is a round from last year's Maryland Invitational
Tournament.  Rules for each round have been included.  Answers are printed under
each question in capital letters.

Round 1:  Letter Category.  In this round, all answers begin with the same
letter, which will be announced before the round.  As in all other rounds,
players may consult with one another before answering.  In this round, 10
points are awarded for a right answer.  If a team answers incorrectly, 10
points are deducted from their score, but the question is NOT turned over
to the other team.  The round is usually fairly easy and the emphasis is
on speed and anticipation.

The letter is "B"

1.  Inventor of a system of printing and writing for the blind.
Louis BRAILLE
2.  Born Siddhartha Gautama, he founded a world religion in India.
BUDDHA
3.  This prison in Paris was stormed in 1789.
the BASTILLE
4.  Peninsula which contains Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, and Greece.
BALKAN
5.  A tropical grass, a favorite food of pandas.
BAMBOO
6.  The American composer of "Candide" and "West Side Story".
Leonard BERNSTEIN
7.  Character created by Bob Kane, his enemies include the Riddler and the
    Joker.
BATMAN
8.  The name of Teddy Roosevelt's Progressive party in the election of 1912.
BULL MOOSE


Round 2: Untimed Individual.

This round consists of six questions, some of which will involve visuals
provided by the tournament directors.  The buzzer is not used in this
round.  Twenty points are awarded for a correct answer; there are no
penalties.

TEAM 1:
1.  WE DEMAND  HOME RULE -- Hidden in this statement is the name of what
Greek author of the Odyssey?
HOMER
2.  FLIMFLAM, FLAMBOYANT, FLIPPANT -- Which word means a deception?
FLIMFLAM
3.  Thales, Democritus, Pythagoras -- Which of these ancient philosophers
believed the world to be made of water?
THALES
4.  (two part question) The same year, 1892, saw the opening of what
immigration facility in New York City, as well as the election of what man
who became the only person to serve two nonconsecutive terms as President?
ELLIS ISLAND and Grover CLEVELAND
5.  California, West Virginia, Maine -- Arrange these states in
chronological order according to when they became states.
MAINE, CALIFORNIA, WEST VIRGINIA
6.  "Abandon all hope ye who enter here." -- This warning is inscribed on
the gates of Hell in "The Inferno", one section of what Italian author's
Divine Comedy?
DANTE Aligheri

Team 2:
1.  A DIVA NAMED MARIA -- Find the hidden name of the Russian czar
nicknamed "The Terrible".
IVAN
2.  GRANDILOQUENCE, GRATUITOUS, GRANDEUR.  Which word means spledor?
GRANDEUR
3.  Australia, Russia, Estonia -- Which of these countries does not have
the color red in its flag?
ESTONIA
4.  (two part question) The same year, 1793, saw the execution of what
French king, and the development of the cotton gin by what American
inventor?
LOUIS XVI and Eli WHITNEY
5.  Arizona, Ohio, Kentucky -- Arrange these states in chronological
order according to when they became states.
KENTUCKY, OHIO, ARIZONA
6.  "Sing to me, O Muse, of the wrath of Achilles." -- So begins what
Homeric epic about the Trojan War?
The ILIAD

The next round is the category round.  The rules are the same as the
opening letter category:  teams must buzz in; correct answers receive
10 points, incorrect ones -10.  Questions are never turned over to the
other team.  Category rounds may be things like works of literature and
authors, U.S. Presidents and Vice-Presidents, composers and their works,
artists and their works, animals and their orders, movies and directors,
or any other quick binary pair.  There will usually be a lead in so that
teams must time their buzzing:  such as "Name the composer of...[work]".

Category Round:  Given the works of classical music, name the composer.
"Name the composer of..."

1.  Tosca, La Boheme, Madame Butterfly
Giacomo PUCCINI
2.  Boris Gudonov, Pictures at an Exhibition, Night on Bald Mountain
Modest MOUSSORGSKY
3.  Fidelio, the Moonlight Sonata, the Pastoral Symphony
Ludwig van BEETHOVEN
4.  Il Trovatore, La Traviata, Aida
Giuseppi VERDI
5.  In the Steppes of Central Asia, Prince Igor
Alexander BORODIN
6.  Swan Lake, the Nutcracker, the 1812 Overture
Peter TCHAIKOVSKY
7.  Cosi Fan Tutti, Don Giovanni, The Magic Flute
Wolfgang MOZART
8.  The Coffee Cantata, the Art of the Fugue, the Brandenburg Concertos
J.S. BACH
9.  Petrouchka, the Firebird, the Rite of Spring
Igor STRAVINSKI
10.  Love for Three Oranges, Lieutenant Kije, Peter and the Wolf
Sergei PROKOFIEV

The next round is the timed individual round.  It is recommended that
teams bring a watch with a countdown timer for their own convenience.
There will be 8 questions, with one of them being a math question, one
being a multiple-choice science question, and the last one being a
quotation question.  Teams do not buzz in -- the rounds are for individual
teams only.  20 points up, nothing off for wrong answers.  There is a 25
point bonus for answering all 8 correctly.

Team 1:
1.  The Bollingen prize was first awarded in 1949 to Ezra Pound.  This
prize, ow worth $10, 000, is given for excellence in what field of
endeavor, some of whose greats have included William Carlos Williams, e.e.
cummings, and Robert Frost?
POETRY
2.  One of professional sports' newest teams is the National Hockey
League's "Mighty Ducks", who are owned by Disney and got their team name
from a Disney film.  The team is based in what California city, which, not
by coincidence, is also the location of Disneyland?
ANAHEIM
3.  From 1928 to 1939, King Zog was the ruler of what small Balkan country
whose capital is Tirane?
ALBANIA
4.  Solve for x in the given figure (a diagram is shown, perhaps a
triangle or polygon.  This question is very similar to those found on
It's Academic)
5.  L. L. Zamenhof is the inventor of what modern man-made language, which
was introduced in 1887 as a language with relatively simple grammatical
rules and words derived mainly from Latin and Greek?
ESPERANTO
6.  Choice:  Which of the following is not a measure of length?
Hectare, furlong, or light-year.
HECTARE
7.  This man was a member of the Soviet Union's inner circle and was head
of the Red Army.  He lost a power struggle with Stalin, fled Russia, and
was killed in Mexico in 1940.
LEON TROTSKY
8.  "I will not retreat a single inch -- and I will be heard."  These
words were written in 1831 in the first issue of "The Liberator", an
abolitionist paper published by what American journalist?
William Lloyd GARRISON


Team 2:
1.  Its home was on the island of Mauritius until it succumbed to the
depredations of settlers.  What is this turkey-sized flightless bird,
now extinct, which has lent its name to anyone who makes a stupid error?
DODO
2.  He was one of the chief negotiators that managed to free the hostages
from Iran after 444 days of captivity in the early 1980's.  These days,
he is busy dealing with the problems of Russia, South Africa, Israel, and
other hotspots of the world.  Who is this 1993 Secretary of State?
Warren CHRISTOPHER
3.  We all know that Saddam hussein is the ruler of Iraq, but King Hussein
is the ruler of what other Middle Eastern nation, who capital is Amman?
JORDAN
4.  What is the slope of the line given by the equation shown? (a visual
with the equation on it is presented)
2/3
5.  Muslims refrain from food, drink, and other bodily pleasures between
sunrise and sunset during what ninth month of the Islamis calendar?
RAMADAN
6.  Choice:  Which of the following scientists helped resurrect the wave
theory of light by demonstrating optical interference in a famous two-slit
experiment?  Liebniz, Priestley, or Young?
YOUNG
7.  "The Persistence of Memory", a painting featuring melting clocks,
is one of the many surrealistic works by what Spanish painter with a
long handlebar moustache?
Salvadore DALI
8.  The phrase "Rum, Romanism, and Rebellion" spelled doom for the 1884
presidential campaign of what man, a senator from Maine who ran
unsuccessfully against Grover Cleveland and was known as the "Plumed
Knight"?
James G. BLAINE

The last round is the Grab-Bag round.  There will be 15 questions read,
each worth 20 points up or down.  Teams must again buzz in to answer.

1.  No football team has ever won three consecutive Super Bowls.  What was
the last baseball team to win three consecutive World Series?
THE OAKLAND ATHLETICS (1972-1974)

2.  Nothing could harm him but the mistletoe.  Unfortunately, Loki
tricked his half-brother Hoder into killing him.  Name this Norse god of
beauty, goodness, light, and wisdom.
BALDER

3.  Becky Sharp has been called the first "gold digger" of literature,
crawling to gain social status and wealth.  What author of
"Henry Esmond", "Barry Lyndon" and "Vanity Fair" created her?
William Makepeace THACKERAY

4.  It comes from the Greek words for "above the tongue".  What do we call
this flap of tissue that prevents food from entering the windpipe while
swallowing occurs?
EPIGLOTTIS

5.  "The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire" was written by Edward
Gibbon.  For twenty points, name the German high school teacher who
envisioned a revolt of "blood" and "race" in his "The Decline of the West".
Oswald SPENGLER

6.  "Ecrasez l'infame"  or "crush the infamous thing" was the motto of
an 18th century French literary figure who was a friend of the Russian
empress, Catherine the Great.  Name him.
VOLTAIRE (Francois Marie Arouet)

7.  Henry VIII's court painter was Hans Holbein the Younger and Francis
I's court painter was Leonardo Da Vinci.  But who made royal portraits
for the Spanish monarch Charles IV?
Francisco GOYA

8.  Dag Hammarskjold became UN Secretary General, Mt. Everest was first
climed, and Stalin died.  In what year did all these events occur?
1953

9.  It is the story of a love triangle between a soldier, a toreador,
and a flirtatious gypsy cigarette factory worker.  What is this opera
based on a Prosper Merimee book?
CARMEN

10.  Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, or Vietnam -- which of these
countries was never subjected to European colonial rule?
THAILAND

11.  This physical constant is equal to 1.38 times 10 to the 23 joules per
Kelvin, and it is often abbreviated by a lowercase "k".  What is this
number?
BOLTZMAN'S CONSTANT

12.  He was apprenticed to the sorcerer Ulric before journeying to
Ur-land in hopes of killing a dreaded monster.  Name this "dragonslayer''
who shares his name with the ancient doctor who was Marcus Aurelius'
court physician.
GALEN

13.  Twas brillig, and the slithy toves
Did gyre and gimble in the wabe;
All mimsy were the borogroves,
And the mome raths outgrabe.
This excerpt from Lewis Carroll's "Through the Looking-Glass" is
representative of his fantastic poetry.  What poem, renowned for its
portmanteau words, did this excerpt come from ?
JABBERWOCKY

14.  John Murphy, Frank Thompson, Harrison Williams, and Raymond Lederev
were all nabbed for involvement in what criminal scandal?
ABSCAM

15.   On the same day that John F. Kennedy was killed, two famous English
writers also died.  One was Aldous Huxley.  The other was what author of
"The Screwtape Letters" and "The Chronicles of Narnia"?
Clive S. LEWIS